# GenFlowGraphs

This repository contains various graphs in DIMACS format for Generalized Min-Cost Flow Problems.

## GNETGEN graphs

Directories **graphs/maxcap** and **graphs/nsupp** contain various instances generated by [GNETGEN](https://www.netlib.org/lp/generators/gnetgen) (Glover 1992). The input seeds can be found in **seeds/maxcap** and **seeds/nsupp**.
The following modifications have been applied to GNETGEN:

- increase maximal number of nodes
- increase maximal number of arcs
- increase precision on arc efficiencies to six decimal places

## Energy Systems Graphs

In **graphs/energy** two additional instances can be found. They were obtained by extracting the generalized flow problem of two energy planning tools:

- **CESM.dmx**: Flow problem from [CESM](10.5281/zenodo.13902515) (Hajikazemi, Barbosa 2024) modeling the German energy demand with a 50 years planning horizon with 365 time steps per year.
- **P2H.dmx**: Flow problem from a Power-to-Heat example model provided by Siemens in the context of a joint research project (RODES) modeling two conversion processes (Gas Boiler + Heatpump) to create heat energy. The graph is obtained by modeling the problem with a 8760 time steps resolution.

## Tools

The repository includes three scripts that were used to create the graphs from the seeds with GNETGEN:

- `generateFolder.py`: Python script to generate various instances from a given folder of input seeds. It calls genInstance.sh to create graphs.
- `genInstance.sh`: Bash script calling GNETGEN (relies on compiled version of gnetgen) and converts the output to DIMACS format.
- `genTestsets.sh` Bash script generating files with lists of generated graph names. Useful for the creation of testsets.

## DIMACS format

Line starts with special symbol to define line usage (node indices range from 1 to n)

- c: comment lines (ignored)
- p: problem definition, line should start with `p min n m` with `n` as number of nodes and `m` as number of arcs
- n: node description, followed by index and supply of node (`n idx suppy`)
- a: arc desription, followed by source, target, lowerbound, upperbound, cost, efficiency (`a src tgt lb ub cost eff`)

Every line is ended with an newline character (do not forget the last line).

An example file looks like:

```txt
c small example
c this could be your comment!
c
p min 5 7
n 1 3
n 5 -1
a 1 2 0 1 1 1
a 1 3 0 1 3 1
a 2 3 0 1 1 0.3
a 2 4 0 1 1 0.5
a 4 3 0 1 2 1
a 3 5 0 1 1 0.5
a 4 5 0 1 3 1
```

## License

Apache License, Version 2.0

## Authors

Jonas Alker & Marc E. Pfetsch

## Acknowledgements

 Supported by the german BMFTR in the context of the RODES project.
